DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   1  DELHI  MOTOR VEHICLES T AXATION ACT , 1962  (AS AMENDED)    COMPILED BY  SECRET ARIAT BRANCH  TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT  GOVT . OF N.C.T . OF DELHI              
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   2    THE DELHI MOTOR VEHICLE S TAXATION   ACT, 1962  (NO. 57 OF 1962 )  [15th December, 1962]   An Act to impose a tax o n Motor Vehicles in the Union Territory of Delhi for other matter connected ther ewith.   Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -  1. Short title, extent and commencement. - (1) This Act may be called the Delhi  Motor Vehicles Taxation(Amendment) Act, 2004.  (2) It extends to the whole of the 1{National Capital Territory of Delhi }. (3) [It shall come into force on such date as the 2{Lieutenant Governor of the   National Capital Territory of Delhi } may, by notifica tion in the Official Gazette, appoint. ]# 2. Definitions. -  In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 3{ (a) „Delhi‟ means the National Capital Territory of Delhi; } 4{ (b) „Government‟ means the  Lieutenant Governor of the   National Capital Terri tory of Delhi appointed by the President under article 239 and designated as such under article 239 AA of the Constitution; } ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  1,2 ,3 & 4 -Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.        
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   3  (c) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;  (d) “quarter” means a period of three months commencing on the first day of April, the first day of July, the first day of October or the first day of January in each year;  (e) “registered owner” means the person in whose name a motor vehicle is registered under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988);  (f)  “tax” means the tax levied under this Act;  (g) “taxation authority” means an y person or authority appointed by the 5{Govern ment }  by notification in the Official Gazette to exercise „the powers and perform‟ the duties conferred or imposed upon a taxation authority by or under, this Act;  (h) “token  means a ticket to be displayed o n a motor vehicle as an indication that the tax has been duly paid or that no tax is payable:  (i) “year” means the financial year;  (j) all words and expressions used, but not, defined in this Act, and defined in the 6{Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, [59 of 1988] } shall have the   meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.  7 [3. Levy of tax. -(1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act on and from the commencement of the 8{Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act 2004 } there shall be levied and co llected on :- (a) all motor vehicles described in column (1) of Part A of Schedule I and used or kept for use in Delhi, a tax at the rate specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) of the said Part;  (b) all motor vehicles described in column (1) of Part B of Schedule I and used or kept for use in Delhi,  5, 6 & 8-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.  7-Section 3 renumbered as sub -section (1) & sub -section (2) vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983.  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   4  (i) on their first registration in Delhi, a one time tax at the amount specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) of the said Part;  9{ (ii) the same having been earlier registered in Delhi  or in any other State, then having regard to the  mon th of there first registration in Delhi or, as the case may be, in that other State, a one time tax  which shall be equal to the amount specified in column (2) of Part B of Schedule  I, minus the proportionate amount at one -tenth of the tax so calculated  o f each  completed year from the month of first registration of motor vehicle; } Provided that  where such motor vehicles are more than ten years old from the date of  their first registration, the owner‟s thereof shall apply to the  taxation authority  for an  endorsement therein  to the effect that  the motor vehicles are more than  ten year‟s old and there use or keeping for use in Delhi do not attract any tax.  10{Provided further that  the Government  by notification in the Official   Gazette  change from  time to time the description of motor vehicles in column (1) of Part B of Schedule  I. } 11{ (2) the Government may by notification in the Official Gazette,  increase or, as the case may be, decrease from time to time,  the rate specified in  Schedule I, i n relation to any motor vehicles:  Provided that  any such increase or,  as the case may be , decrease shall not apply  in respect of a motor vehicle specified  in Part B of  the said Schedule on which one time tax has been levied and collected. }] 4  Declar ation and payment of tax. - (1)  Every registered owner or person having possession  or, control of a motor vehicle used  or kept for use in Delhi shall fill up and sign a declaration in the prescribed form stating  the prescribed particulars  and shall del iver the same to the  taxation authority within the prescribed time.  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------9 & 11-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.  10-Inserted  vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.    
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   5  (2) the tax to which  a register ed owner or person  having possession  or, control of a motor vehicle appears by  such  declaration  to be liable  under section 3 shall be paid by him -  (a)where such vehicle is described in Part A of Schedule I - (i) for a year  at the rate specified in the corresponding entry  in column (2) thereof (hereinafter refer to as the annual rate); or  (ii)for one or more quarters, at one –fourth of the annual ra te for each quarter; or for any period less than a quarter expiring on the last day of the quarter, at one –twelfth  of the annual rate for each complete month or part thereof included in such period; or  12{ (b) where such vehicle is described in part B o f Schedule I, a one time tax at the amount  specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) in the said part or, as the case may be,  the amount specified  in  sub clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 3 .} (3)  the tax shall be paid wi th in such time and such manner  as may be prescribed.  (4) in calculating the tax  due for any period  less than one year, fraction of a rupee shall be counted as a rupee.   5.Issue of token. - (1) when a person pays the amount of tax leviable under section  3 in respect of any motor vehicle or proves to the satisfaction of the taxation authority that no such tax is payable in respect of such vehicle, the taxation authority shall - (a) issue to such person a token in the prescribed form specifying therein the period  for which such tax has been  paid or that no such tax is payable, and  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  12-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.     
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   6  (b) specify in the certificate of registration granted, in respect of the vehicle under the 13{Motor Vehicles Act, 1988}, or in case  of vehicle not registered  under that Act, in a certificate in such form as may be prescribed, that the tax has been pa id for the period specified under clause (a) or that no tax  is payable , in respect of that vehicle, as the case may be.  (2) No motor vehicle liable to tax under this Act shall be used or kept for use in Delhi unless the  registered owner or the person ha ving  possession or control of each  vehicle has obtained a valid token in respect of that vehicle, and that token is displayed on the vehicle in the prescribed manner.   6.Additional declaration. - (1) When a motor vehicle used or kept for use in Delhi is altered or is proposed to be used in such manner as to render the registered owner or the person who has possession  or control of such vehicle liable to the payment of additional tax under section 7, such  owner or person shall fill up, sig n  and deliver i n the manner provided in sub -section (2), an additional de claration  and shall, along with such additional declaration (accompanied by the certificate of registration in respect of such motor  vehicle),  pay to the taxation authority an additional tax paya ble under the section which he appears by such additional declaration to be liable to in respect of such vehicle.  (2) The additional  declaration shall be in the prescribed form containing the prescribed particulars and shall be delivered to the taxation a uthority after being duly filled up and sig ned within the prescribed time.  The  additional  declaration shall indicate clearly also the nature of alteration made in the motor vehicle  or, as the case may be, the altered use to which the vehicle is propose d to be put.  (3) In receipt of the additional tax under sub -section (1), the taxation authority  shall issue to the registered owner or the person who has possession or control of the vehicle, a fresh token in place of the original token and shall cause an  entry of such payment  to be made in the certificate of registration.   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  13-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.   
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   7  7.Liability for additional tax. - When   any motor vehicle in respect of which a tax for any period is payable or has been paid, is altered during such period, or proposed to be used during such period in such manner, as to cause the vehicle  to become a vehicl e in respect of which a  higher rate of tax is payable, the registered owner or the person who has possession or  control of the vehicle, shall in addition  to the tax, if any, due from him for that period, be liable to pay for the unexpired portion of such   period since  the vehicle is altered or propose d to be used, an additional  tax  of a sum  equal  to the difference between the amount of tax  payable  for such unexpired  portion at  the higher  rate and the rate at which the tax was payable or paid bef ore the alteration or use of the vehicle  for that portion , and until such additional tax has been paid, the taxation authority  shall not grant a fresh token in respect of the vehicle so altered or proposed to be so used.     Explanation - In calculating t he unexpired portion under this section  any broken period in a month  shall be considered as a full month.   8. Production of certificate of insurance.   Every registered owner or person having possession or control of a motor vehicle shall, at the time of making payment of the tax, produce before the taxation authority a valid certificate of insurance  in respect of the vehicle complying with the  requirements of  14{Chapter XI of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988) }.   9.Liability to pay arrears of t ax of person succeeding  to the ownership , possession  or control of motor vehicles. - (1) If  the tax leviable in respect of any motor vehicle remains unpaid by any person liable for payment thereof and such person before having paid the tax has transferred  the  ownership of such vehicle or has ceased to be   in possession or control of such vehicle, the person  who has possession or control of such vehicle shall be liable to pay the said tax to the taxation authority.  (2) Nothing contained in this section s hall be deemed to affect the liability to pay  the said tax of the person who has transferred the ownership or has ceased to be in possession or control of such vehicle.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------  14-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   8  10 Refund of tax. - (1) When any person who has paid the tax in re spect of a motor vehicle produces before the taxation authority  a certificate sighed by the regis tering authority stating that the tax token and the certificate of registration  issued in respect of such vehicle have been surrendered on the date specified by the registering  authority in his certificate, such  person shall, on an application made in that behalf to the taxation authority  and subject to such conditions as  may be prescribed, be entitled to a refund, - (a) In a case where payment  of tax has been made in accordance with clause (a)  of sub -section (2) of section 4, for each complete month of th e period for   which such tax has been paid and which is unexpired on the date on which the tax token and the certificate  of registration were surrendered  of an amount  equal to one -twelfth of  the  annual tax payable in respect of such vehicle; and   15{(b)In a case where payment of tax has been made in accordance with clause (b) of sub -section(2) of section 4, at the rate specified  in Part B of Schedule I or, as the case may be, sub -clause (ii) of clause (b)  of sub -section (1) of section 3}. (2) When any  person has paid the tax in respect of a motor  vehicle and the vehicle is removed outside Delhi before the expiry  of the period for which the tax has been  paid  and taxed in another State or the   registration of such vehicle is cancelled before the exp iry of the period  for which the tax has been paid,  such person shall, on  an application made  in that behalf to the taxation authority  and subject  to such conditions as  may be prescribed, be entitled to a refund, -  (a) In a case  where payment of tax  has been made in accordance with clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 4, for each complete month of the period for which such tax has been  paid,  and during which the vehicle was removed from Delhi or such  vehicle‟s registration is cancelled,  of an  amount equal to one -twelfth of the annual tax payable  in  respect of such vehicle; and  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  15-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004. .  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   9  16{ (b) In a  case where payment  of tax has been made in accordance with a clause (b) of sub -section (2) of section 4,  at the rates specified in Part B of Schedule I or, as the case may be, sub -clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub -section (1) of  section 3 }. (3) Where the rates of tax leviable under part B of Schedule I are increased  17{ or as the case may be, decreased } by notification in the official Gazette under sub -section (2) of section 3, the 18{ Govern ment }may,  from time to time, by the   same notification or by a separate notification in the official  Gazette, correspondingly increase the rates of refund payable under this section and the refund of tax payable, in respect of the vehicles registered on or after the date of such notificati on shall be at  such increased rates.  11. Penalty payable when tax not paid. - When any registered owner or any person who has possession or control of any motor vehicle used or kept for use in Delhi is in default in making  a payment of the tax, the taxati on authority  may direct that,  in addition to the amount  of arrears, a sum not exceeding the annual tax payable in respect  of such vehicle shall be recovered from him by way of penalty.  12.Arrears of tax and penalty recoverable as arrears of land revenue .-(1) Any tax due and not paid as provided for by or under this Act and any sum directed to be recovered by way of penalty under section 11 shall be recoverable in the same manner as an arrear of land  revenue.  (2)The motor vehicle in respect of which the t ax is due or in respect of which any sum has been directed to be recovered  as penalty under section 11, or its accessories may be distrained and sold in pursuance of this section whether or not such vehicle or accessories is or are in the possession or co ntrol of the person liable to pay the tax or penalty.  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  16 & 18-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.  17-Inser ted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.     
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   10  13. Exemptions. -(1) Where the registered owner or the person having possession or control of a motor vehicle is an agriculturist and that motor vehicle has been designed for agricultural operation s  and is used solely for such operations in relation to his own land then, that vehicle shall  be exempt from the payment of the tax. Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub -section the expression “agricultural operation” includes. - (i) tilling, sowing, harvesting, crushing of any agricultural produce or any other similar operation carried out for the purpose of agriculture;  (ii)transport of manure, seeds, insecticides and other like articles required for work in the land or from the market to the land; a nd (iii) transport of any agricultural produce from the land to the place of storage or from the place of storage to the market.  (2) When the registered owner or the person having possession or control of a motor vehicle has given  previous intimation in w riting to the taxation authority that the motor vehicle would not be used in any  public place for a particular period, being not  less than one month, and deposits the certificate of registration of such motor vehicle with the taxation authority and obtai ns an acknowledgement therefore from that authority, he shall be exempt from the payment of the tax for the period.  (3) Where the 19{Govern ment } is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient in the public  interest so to do, he may, by notification in th e official Gazette, and subject to such conditions as he may specify in the notification,  exempt either   totally or partially any class of motor vehicles other than those falling  under sub -section (1) or any motor vehicles belonging to any class  of per sons from the payment of the tax. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  19-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.    
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   11  14.Reduction of tax in  cases of certain m otor vehicles. -Where the registered owner of a motor vehicle used or kept for use in Delhi is a cooperative society  registered under any law  relating  to co -operative societies for the time being in force, the tax payable in respect of that motor vehicle shall be one half of the rates specified in Schedule I, if  the taxation authority is satisfied, after such enquiry as it deem fit, that. -     (i) the co -operative society is solely engaged in the business  of transport of goods or passengers or both  from   one place to another in motor vehicles;  (ii) at least seventy -five percent of  the members of the cooperative society are its employees; and  (iii) at least fifty percent  of the members of the co -operative  society are not related to each other; and  (iv) the motor vehicle is used or kept for use exclusively for the purpose of the co -operative society.  Explanation. - For the purpose of this section a member shall be deemed to be related to any other member if that member is the husband, wife, brother or si ster or any lineal ascendant or descendant of that other member.  15. Effect of payment of tax in other States with respect to motor vehicles brought  into Delhi. - Where in respect of a motor  vehicle the tax payable under law relating to taxation on motor v ehicles in force in any state has been paid in that State for any period and that motor vehicle is brought into Delhi for use during that period, then, - (i) no tax under this Act shall be payable in respect of that motor vehicle; and  (ii) that token issued  in that State in respect of that motor vehicle shall be deemed to be a token issued under this Act  For such period or for a period of ninety days from the date on which the motor vehicle is brought into Delhi, whichever is shorter;  Provided that the regi stered owner or the person having possession or control of the motor vehicle complies with the provisions of sub -section (1) of section 4.  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   12  16 Appeal. -(1) Any person who  is aggrieved by any order or direction  of the taxation authority may file an appeal bef ore such person or authority, in such manner, within  such time and on payment  of such  fees, as may be prescribed.  (2) The appeal shall be heard and decided in such manner as may be prescribed.  (3)Every decision on such appeal shall be final and shall  n ot be called in question in any court of law.  17.Powers of police officers and other officers. - Any police  officer in uniform, not below the rank of Sub -Inspector or any other officer prescribed in this behalf may (a) enter at any time between sunrise and sunset any premises where he has reason  to believe that a motor vehicle is kept; or  (b) require the driver of any motor vehicle  in any public place to stop such vehicle and cause it to remain stationary so long as may reasonably be necessary, for the purpose of satisfying himself that the amount of tax in respect of such vehicle,  has been paid.  18.Penalty for incomplete and untrue declaration etc.   Whoever - (a) delivers in respect of a motor vehicle a declaration or additional declaration  wherein the particu lars required by or under this Act to be therein set forth are not fully and truly stated, or  (b) obstructs any officer in the exercise  of the powers conferred by clause (a) of section 17 or fails to stop  the motor vehicle when required to do so by such offic er under clause (b) of that section, shall on conviction be punishable - (i) with fine which may extend to a sum equal to the annual tax payable in respect of such vehicle; and  (ii) in the event of such person having been previously convicted of an offence under thi s section, with fine which may extend to a sum equal to twice  the annual tax payable in respect of such vehicle.  19.Other penalties. - whoever  contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder other than those punishable under sec tion 18 shall on 
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   13  conviction be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees and in the event  of such  person having been previously convicted of an offence under  this section, with fine which may extend to two hundred rupees.  20{20.Utiliza tion of the proceeds of tax.  The proceeds of the tax collected under this act (which shall form  part of the  consolidated fund of India)reduced by the cost of the collection  as determine by the Central Government shall, if parliament by appropriation  ma de by law  in this behalf so provides,  be paid to, - (i)  the Municipal Corporation of Delhi established under Section 3 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act,1957;  (ii) the New Delhi Municipal Committee established under Section 11 of the Punjab Municipa l, Act, 1911, as extended to Delhi, and  (iii) the Cantonment Board, Delhi, constituted under the Cantonments Act, 1924,  for the performance of their respective functions under the said Acts and the payment shall be made in such proportion as may be prescr ibed” }   21. Trial of offences .- No court inferior to that of a  21{Metropolitan  Magistrate } shall try an offence punishable under this Act.  22. Protection for bona fide acts. - No prescription suit or other proceedings shall lie against the taxation author ity or any other authority for anything in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.  23. Power to make rules. - (1)The 22{Government } may, subject to the condition of previous publication, make  rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.  (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the 23{Government }may make rules for all or any of the following matters, namely: -  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------  20- Substituted vide Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment)Act,1965  21,22 & 23-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.   
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   14  (a) the time within which, and the manner in which, the tax shall be paid;  (b) the form of declaration and additional declaration, particulars to be stated therein and the time within which the declaration or additional declaration shall be delivered under section 4 or section 6, as the case may be:  (c ) the form of the tax token and the manner in which the tax token shall be displayed in the motor vehicle under  section 5.  (d)The conditions subject to which refund of tax may be allowed under section 10;  (e) the authority before which, the manner in which, the time within which and the fee on payment of which, an appeal may be filed and the manner in which such appeal shall be heard and decided under section 16;  (f) the issue of duplicate tokens and of certified  copies of the records of the taxation authority and the fee chargeable therefo re; (g) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed.  24{ (3) Every rule made under this section and every notification issued under  sub-section (2 ) of section 3, and  sub -section (3) of section 10 shall be laid, as soon as may be , after it is ma de or issued, before the House  of the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi while it is in session, for a total p eriod of thirty days which may be compr ised in one session or in two or more successive  sessions, and if before the expiry  of the session immediately following the session or the succe ssive  sessions aforesaid, the House agrees in making any modification in the rule  or notification, or the House agrees that the rule should not be made or the notification should not be  issue, the rule or notification shall  thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case maybe;  so, however , that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done u nder that rule or notification. } 24. Repeal. - (1) On  and from the commencement of this Act, the Acts specified in Schedule II shall stand repealed.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------    24-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004. .  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   15  (2) The repeal of the said Acts by sub -section (1) shall not affect, - (a) the previous operation  of the said Acts or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or  (b) any right, pr ivilege, obligation or right conferred, accrued or incurred under any of the said Acts; or  (c ) any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any of the said Acts;  (d) any investigation, legal proceeding or reme dy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid;   and any such investigation , legal proceeding or remedy may be                           instituted, continued or enforced and  any such  penalty,                                          forfeiture or punishment  may be imposed  as if the said  Acts had not been repeated.  (3) Subject to the provisions contained in sub -section (2 ) and notwithstanding the repeal of the Punjab Motor Vehicle Taxat ion Act,1924, (Punjab Act  4 of 1924) as extended to Delhi, - (i) every declaration delivered under that Act in respect of any motor vehicle shall be deemed to be a declaration delivered under this  Act; and   (ii) every token issued under that Act and valid immediately  before the commencement of this Act, shall continue to be valid after  such commencement for the unexpired portion of the period for which it has  been issued.  25.Amendment of section  184, Act 66 of 1957 .-   In the Delhi Municipal Corporation  Act, 1957, for section 184, the following section shall be substituted, namely - “184. Central Government  to pay proceeds of entertainment and betting taxed to corporation. -  The proceeds of the entertainment and betting taxed collected in Delhi under the  provisions of the U.P. Entertainment and Betting Tax Act, 1937,  (U.P. Act 8 of 1937.) as extended  to  Delhi  (which shall  form part of the Consolidated Fund of India) reduced 
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   16  by the cost of collection as determined by the Central Government shall, if parliament by appropriation made by law  in this behalf so provides, be paid to the corporation for the performance of its functions under this Act.”     25{SCHEDULE  I  (See section 3)  PART   A   Description of Motor Vehicles  Annual rate of tax for each Moto r Vehicle   (1) (2)  Group A Motor Vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres  Rupees  I. Motor vehicles (including tricycles) used for transport or haulage of goods or materials the registered laden weight of which :-  a) Does not exceed one tonne  Six hu ndred sixty five only  b) Exceeds one tonne but does not exceed two tonnes  Nine hundred forty only  c) Exceeds two tonnes but does not exceed four tonnes  One thousand four hundred thirty only  d) Exceeds four tonnes but does not exceed six tonnes  One thous and nine hundred fifteen only  e) Exceeds six tonnes but does not exceed eight tonnes  Two thousand three hundred seventy five only  f) Exceeds eight tonnes but does not exceed nine tonnes  Two thousand eight hundred sixty five only  g) Exceeds nine tonnes b ut does not exceed ten tonnes  Three thousand three hundred twenty only.   h) Exceeds ten tonnes  The rates specified in (g) above plus f our hundred seventy for every one tone or part thereof in addition to 10 tonnes  II Additional tax payable in respect of vehicles referred to in item -I used for drawing trailers: -  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   17  a) For each trailer the registered laden weight of which does not exceed two tones  Four hundred sixty five only b) for each trailer the registered laden weight of which exceeds two tones.  Nine h undred twenty five only Provided that two or more vehicles shall not be chargeable under this Item in respect of the same trailers: -   III. Motor vehicles (including tricycles) plying for hire and used for the transport of passengers when: -  a) Licensed  to carry not more than two (excluding driver)  Three hundred five only  b) Licensed to carry in all more than two but not more four passengers (excluding driver and conductor)  Six hundred five only  c) Licensed to carry in all more than four passengers but  not more than six passengers (excluding driver and conductor)  One thousand one hundred thirty only  d) Licensed to carry in all more than six passengers but not more than eighteen passengers (excluding driver and conductor)  One thousand nine hundred fifteen only  e) Licensed to carry  more than eighteen passengers (excluding driver and conductor)  The rates specified in (d) above plus Two hundred eighty for every passenger in addition to eighteen passengers.  IV Motor vehicles owned by Airlines Companies/Co rporation for carrying passengers and staff: -  a) The s eating capacity of which does not exceed four (excluding driver)  Six hundred fifteen only  b) The s eating capacity which exceed four but does not exceed six One hundred thirty only  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   18  (excluding driver)  c) The seating  capacity which exceed six but does not exceed eighteen (excluding driver)  One thousand nine hundred fifteen only  d) The seating  capacity of which exceeds eighteen  The rate specified in (c) above plus Two hundred eighty for each passenger.  e) Break -down vans used for towing  disabled vehicles and tower wagon used for maintenance of overhead electric lines.  Nine hundred forty five only}  26{PART B   Description of Motor Vehicle  Amount   (1) (2)   Rupees  Group - A Motor Vehicles fitted sole ly with Pneumatic tyres   1. Two wheelers costing upto Rs. 25,000/ - 2% of the cost price  2. Two wheelers costing above Rs. 25,000/ - and upto Rs. 40,000/ - 4% of the cost price  3. Two wheelers costing above Rs. 40,000/ - and upto Rs. 60,000/ - 6% of the co st price  4. Two wheelers costing above Rs. 60,000/ - 8% of the cost price  5. Non Transport category three wheelers  4% of the cost price  6. Four wheeled and more than four wheeled motor vehicles costing upto Rs. 6 lakhs  4% of the cost price  7. Four whe eled and more than four wheeled vehicles costing above Rs. 6 lakhs and upto Rs. 10 lakhs.  7% of the cost price  8. Four wheeled and more than four wheeled vehicles costing above Rs. 10 lakhs  10% of the cost price   
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   19    Explanation – For the purpose of abov e calculation the “cost price” shall mean:  (a) In the case of motor vehicles manufactured in India the basic manufacturing cost and excise duty plus sales tax without allowing any cash or trade discount; and  (b) In the case of imported motor vehicles, the price shown in the Bill of Entry and shall be inclusive of customs duty, sales tax or any other levy, as may be applicable.    Additional tax payable in respect of vehicles, if such vehicles are used for drawing trailers   (a) For each trailer the registered unladen weight of which does not exceed one tone  One Thousand Eight Hundred Forty only.  (b) For each trailer the registered unladen weight of which exceed one tone  Three Thousand Six Hundred Sixty Five only  Group B  Motor Vehicles other than those fitted sol ely with pneumatic tyres.  The amount shown in Group A of this part plus fifty percent thereof.}   27{PART  C } 28{Schedule IA  Schedule IB }                                               Schedule II  {See Section 24 (1)}  1. The Punjab Motor Vehicles Taxation Act , 1924 (Punjab Act 4 of 1924) as extended to Delhi.  
DELHI MOTOR VEHICLES TAXATION ACT,1962   20  2. The Punjab Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1940 (Punjab Act 2 of 1940) as extended to Delhi.  3. The Punjab Motor Vehicles Taxation (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1954 (6 of 1954).  4. The Punjab Motor Vehicles Taxation (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1955 (2 of 1956).  5. The Punjab Motor Vehicles Taxation (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1956 (10 of 1956)  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                 25  -Substitut ed vide notification no. F.AO/ACCTTS/1993 -94/480 -501 dated 12 -09-1997   26-Substituted vide The Delhi Motor Vehicles  Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004 & then by    notification no.  F.19(52)/Tpt./Sectt./2010/2502 ,dated 09 -06-2010 .                27 & 28-Omitted  The Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 2004.    